README.md, before:

Combined Query
=================

WordPress plugin - Combined Query

###Description

This experimental plugin allows you to combine multiple `WP_Query` queries into a single one, using the `combined_query` attribute.

This started as an answer on Stackoverflow, see [here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/23555109/wordpress-combine-queries/) and [here](http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/questions/159228/combining-two-wordpress-queries-with-pagination-is-not-working/).

The idea behind this plugin is to combine the SQL queries for each `WP_Query()` query with `UNION` or `UNION ALL`.

I first noticed this technique in a [great answer on WordPress Development](http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/a/912/26350) by Mike Schinkel.

I use the trick mentioned [here](http://stackoverflow.com/a/7587423/2078474) to preserve the order of `UNION` sub queries. 

This implementation supports combining `N` sub-queries.


###Notice about the new 1.0.0 version

This version is a total rewrite of the plugin. 

The `WP_Combine_Query` class has been removed in favour of simply using the `combined_query` attribute of the `WP_Query` class.

Now the plugin only supports PHP versions 5.4+.
	
###Default Settings 

The default setup for the `combined_query` attribute:

    'combined_query' => [        
        'args'   => [],         // [ $args1, $args2, ... ]
        'union'  => 'UNION',    // Possible values are UNION or UNION ALL
     ]

If you want to remove duplicated posts use `UNION`, else use `UNION ALL`.
	 
###Custom filters

There are two custom filters currently available:

    // Modify combined ordering:
    add_filter( 'cq_orderby', function( $orderby ) {
        return $orderby;
    });
    
    // Modify sub fields:
    add_filter( 'cq_sub_fields', function( $fields ) {
        return $fields;
    });


###Installation

Upload the plugin to the plugin folder and activate it.

To install dependencies use:

    composer install
	
or

	php composer.phar install

within our folder. See [here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md) for more information on how to install Composer.
	
Then play with the examples below, in your theme or in a plugin. 

Have fun ;-)

###Example 1a: 

Here we want to display the first published page in an alphabetical order and then the three oldest published posts:

    //-----------------
    // Sub query #1:
    //-----------------
    $args1 = [
       'post_type'      => 'page',
       'posts_per_page' => 1,
       'orderby'        => 'title',
       'order'          => 'asc',
    ];
  
    //-----------------
    // Sub query #2:
    //-----------------
    $args2 = [
       'post_type'      => 'post',
       'posts_per_page' => 3,
       'orderby'        => 'date',
       'order'          => 'asc',
    ];

    //---------------------------
    // Combined queries #1 + #2:
    //---------------------------
    $args = [
        'posts_per_page' => 4,
        'combined_query' => [        
            'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
            'union'  => 'UNION',
        ]
    ];

    //---------
    // Output:
    //---------
    $q = new WP_Query( $args );
    if( $q->have_posts() ):
    ?><ul><?php
        while( $q->have_posts() ): $q->the_post();
            ?><li><a href="<?php the_permalink();?>"><?php the_title();?></a></li><?php
        endwhile;
    ?></ul><?php
        wp_reset_postdata();
    else:
        _e( 'Sorry no posts found!' );
    endif;       


###Example 1b: 

If we want to order the combined query in example 1a, we can use for example:

    //---------------------------
    // Combined queries #1 + #2:
    //---------------------------
    $args = [
        'posts_per_page' => 4,
        'orderby'        => [ 'date' => 'asc', 'title' => 'desc' ]
        'combined_query' => [        
            'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
        ]
    ];

###Example 2: 

Here we want to display all posts published today, sorted by comment count and after that all posts (excluding today's post) sorted by comment count.
This [example](http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/questions/159228/combining-two-wordpress-queries-with-pagination-is-not-working) was provided by Robert Hue.

    //-----------------
    // Sub query #1:
    //-----------------
    $args1 = [ 
        'post_type'           => 'post',
        'orderby'             => 'comment_count',
        'posts_per_page'      => 100, // adjust to your needs
        'date_query'          => [
            [
                'after' => date('Y-m-d'),
            ],
            'inclusive'  => true,
         ]
    ];

    //-----------------   
    // Sub query #2:
    //-----------------
    $args2 = [
        'post_type'           => 'post',
        'orderby'             => 'comment_count',
        'posts_per_page'      => 100, // adjust to your needs
        'date_query'          => [
            [
               'before' => date('Y-m-d'),
            ],
            'inclusive'  => false,
         ]
    ];

    //--------------------------- 
    // Combined queries #1 + #2:
    //---------------------------
    $args = [
        'posts_per_page'      => 5,
        'ignore_sticky_posts' => 1,
        'paged'               => ( $paged = get_query_var( 'page' ) ) ? $paged : 1 ,
        'combined_query' => [        
            'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
        ]
    );

    //---------
    // Output:
    //---------
    // See example 1a


###Example 3:

Let's combine two meta queries and order by a common meta value:

    //-----------------
    // Sub query #1:
    //-----------------
    $args1 = [
       'post_type'      => 'cars',
       'posts_per_page' => 10,
       'orderby'        => 'title',
       'order'          => 'asc',
       'meta_query'     => [
            [
                'key'      => 'doors',
                'value'    => 0,
                'compare'  => '>=',
                'type'     => 'UNSIGNED'
            ],
        ],
    ];

    //-----------------
    // Sub query #2:
    //-----------------
    $args2 = [
       'post_type'      => 'post',
       'posts_per_page' => 10,
       'orderby'        => 'date',
       'order'          => 'desc',
       'tax_query' => [
            [
                'taxonomy' => 'category',
                'field'    => 'slug',
                'terms'    => 'cars',
            ],
        ],
        'meta_query'     => [
            [
                'key'      => 'doors',
                'value'    => 0,
                'compare'  => '>=',
                'type'     => 'UNSIGNED'
            ],
        ],  
    ];


    //------------------------------
    // Order by a common meta value
    //------------------------------

    // Modify combined ordering:
    add_filter( 'cq_orderby', function( $orderby ) {
        return 'meta_value ASC';
    });

    // Modify sub fields:
    add_filter( 'cq_sub_fields', function( $fields ) {
        return $fields . ', meta_value';
    });

    //---------------------------
    // Combined queries #1 + #2:
    //---------------------------
    $args = [
        'posts_per_page' => 5,
        'orderby'        => 'meta_value',
        'order'          => 'DESC',
        'combined_query' => [        
            'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
        ]
    ];

    //---------
    // Output:
    //---------
    // See example 1a


###Example 4:

We could also combine more than two sub queries, here's an example of four sub-queries:

     $args = [ 
         'posts_per_page' => 10,
         'paged'          => 1,
         'combined_query' => [        
             'args'   => [ $args1, $args2, $args3, $args4 ],
         ]
      ];

    //---------
    // Output:
    //---------
    // See example 1a


###Example 5:

The above examples are all for secondary queries. So let's apply Example #1a to the main home query.

    add_action( 'pre_get_posts', function( \WP_Query $q )
    {   
        if( $q->is_home() && $q->is_main_query() )
        {
            //-----------------
            // Sub query #1:
            //-----------------
            $args1 = [
               'post_type'	=> 'page',
               'posts_per_page' => 1,
               'orderby'        => 'title',
               'order'          => 'asc',
            ];

            //-----------------
            // Sub query #2:
            //-----------------
            $args2 = [
               'post_type'      => 'post',
               'posts_per_page' => 3,
               'orderby'        => 'date',
               'order'          => 'asc',
            ];
        
            //---------------------------
            // Combined queries #1 + #2:
            //---------------------------
            $args = [
                'posts_per_page' => 4,
                'combined_query' => [
                    'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
                    'union'  => 'UNION',
                ]
            ];

            //-----------------------
            // Modify the Main query:
            //-----------------------
            $q->set( 'combined_query',	$args['combined_query'] );
            $q->set( 'posts_per_page',  $args['posts_per_page'] );
        }
    } );




###Changelog

1.0.3 (2016-04-21)
 - Fixed: Ticket #7 - Not able to set the "UNION ALL" union option
 - Improved: Inline docs

1.0.2 (2016-04-20)
 - Fixed: Ticket #6 - Escape % in the Generator class. (Props: @DArcMattr)
 - Improved: Inline docs

1.0.1 (2015-11-09)
 - Fixed: Remove vendor dependency and let the user install it via 'composer install' (Props: @pdufour)
 - Fixed: Ignore sticky posts in the EmptyQuery class
 
1.0.0 (2015-05-10)
 - ** Total Plugin Rewrite ** 
 - Closed: Ticket #3
 - Added: New classes Main, EmptyQuery and Generator. 
 - Added: Support for 'combined_query' attribute of the WP_Query class.
 - Added: Support only for PHP 5.4+
 - Added: Autoload via Composer. 
 - Added: New filter 'cq_sub_fields' instead of 'cq_sub_fields'
 - Added: New filter 'cq_orderby' instead of 'cq_orderby'

0.1.3 (2015-05-09)
 - Added: Support for ignory_sticky_posts.
 - Fixed: Minor 

0.1.2 (2015-05-08)
 - Added: Support for the GitHub Updater. 
 - Added: New filter 'wcq_sub_fields' 
 - Added: New filter 'wcq_orderby' 
 - Added: New example for meta value ordering
 - Fixed: Ordering didn't work correctly.

0.1.1
 - Changed: Coding style and autoloading (Props: @egill)

0.1  Various plugin improvements, for example:
 - Added: orderby in the combined query.
 - Added: posts_per_page in the sub queries.
 - Added: offset in the sub queries.
 - Added: paged in the sub queries.
 - Removed: sublimit in the combined query, use posts_per_page instead in sub queries.
 - Fixed: Issue #1 related to max_num_pages (Props: @hellofantastic).

0.0.4
 - Added: support for offset in the combined query

0.0.3
 - Added: GPL2+ License part
 - Removed: Dropped namespace + anonymous function for wider PHP support.

0.0.2 
 - Added: Input parameter 'union' with possible values UNION and UNION ALL.
 - Fixed: Empty paged resulted in a sql error. (Props: Robert Hue)

Commit message:

Simplify example that uses get_query_var()

README.md, after:

Combined Query
=================

WordPress plugin - Combined Query

###Description

This experimental plugin allows you to combine multiple `WP_Query` queries into a single one, using the `combined_query` attribute.

This started as an answer on Stackoverflow, see [here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/23555109/wordpress-combine-queries/) and [here](http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/questions/159228/combining-two-wordpress-queries-with-pagination-is-not-working/).

The idea behind this plugin is to combine the SQL queries for each `WP_Query()` query with `UNION` or `UNION ALL`.

I first noticed this technique in a [great answer on WordPress Development](http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/a/912/26350) by Mike Schinkel.

I use the trick mentioned [here](http://stackoverflow.com/a/7587423/2078474) to preserve the order of `UNION` sub queries. 

This implementation supports combining `N` sub-queries.


###Notice about the new 1.0.0 version

This version is a total rewrite of the plugin. 

The `WP_Combine_Query` class has been removed in favour of simply using the `combined_query` attribute of the `WP_Query` class.

Now the plugin only supports PHP versions 5.4+.
	
###Default Settings 

The default setup for the `combined_query` attribute:

    'combined_query' => [        
        'args'   => [],         // [ $args1, $args2, ... ]
        'union'  => 'UNION',    // Possible values are UNION or UNION ALL
     ]

If you want to remove duplicated posts use `UNION`, else use `UNION ALL`.
	 
###Custom filters

There are two custom filters currently available:

    // Modify combined ordering:
    add_filter( 'cq_orderby', function( $orderby ) {
        return $orderby;
    });
    
    // Modify sub fields:
    add_filter( 'cq_sub_fields', function( $fields ) {
        return $fields;
    });


###Installation

Upload the plugin to the plugin folder and activate it.

To install dependencies use:

    composer install
	
or

	php composer.phar install

within our folder. See [here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md) for more information on how to install Composer.
	
Then play with the examples below, in your theme or in a plugin. 

Have fun ;-)

###Example 1a: 

Here we want to display the first published page in an alphabetical order and then the three oldest published posts:

    //-----------------
    // Sub query #1:
    //-----------------
    $args1 = [
       'post_type'      => 'page',
       'posts_per_page' => 1,
       'orderby'        => 'title',
       'order'          => 'asc',
    ];
  
    //-----------------
    // Sub query #2:
    //-----------------
    $args2 = [
       'post_type'      => 'post',
       'posts_per_page' => 3,
       'orderby'        => 'date',
       'order'          => 'asc',
    ];

    //---------------------------
    // Combined queries #1 + #2:
    //---------------------------
    $args = [
        'posts_per_page' => 4,
        'combined_query' => [        
            'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
            'union'  => 'UNION',
        ]
    ];

    //---------
    // Output:
    //---------
    $q = new WP_Query( $args );
    if( $q->have_posts() ):
    ?><ul><?php
        while( $q->have_posts() ): $q->the_post();
            ?><li><a href="<?php the_permalink();?>"><?php the_title();?></a></li><?php
        endwhile;
    ?></ul><?php
        wp_reset_postdata();
    else:
        _e( 'Sorry no posts found!' );
    endif;       


###Example 1b: 

If we want to order the combined query in example 1a, we can use for example:

    //---------------------------
    // Combined queries #1 + #2:
    //---------------------------
    $args = [
        'posts_per_page' => 4,
        'orderby'        => [ 'date' => 'asc', 'title' => 'desc' ]
        'combined_query' => [        
            'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
        ]
    ];

###Example 2: 

Here we want to display all posts published today, sorted by comment count and after that all posts (excluding today's post) sorted by comment count.
This [example](http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/questions/159228/combining-two-wordpress-queries-with-pagination-is-not-working) was provided by Robert Hue.

    //-----------------
    // Sub query #1:
    //-----------------
    $args1 = [ 
        'post_type'           => 'post',
        'orderby'             => 'comment_count',
        'posts_per_page'      => 100, // adjust to your needs
        'date_query'          => [
            [
                'after' => date('Y-m-d'),
            ],
            'inclusive'  => true,
         ]
    ];

    //-----------------   
    // Sub query #2:
    //-----------------
    $args2 = [
        'post_type'           => 'post',
        'orderby'             => 'comment_count',
        'posts_per_page'      => 100, // adjust to your needs
        'date_query'          => [
            [
               'before' => date('Y-m-d'),
            ],
            'inclusive'  => false,
         ]
    ];

    //--------------------------- 
    // Combined queries #1 + #2:
    //---------------------------
    $args = [
        'posts_per_page'      => 5,
        'ignore_sticky_posts' => 1,
        'paged'               => get_query_var( 'page', 1 ),
        'combined_query' => [        
            'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
        ]
    );

    //---------
    // Output:
    //---------
    // See example 1a


###Example 3:

Let's combine two meta queries and order by a common meta value:

    //-----------------
    // Sub query #1:
    //-----------------
    $args1 = [
       'post_type'      => 'cars',
       'posts_per_page' => 10,
       'orderby'        => 'title',
       'order'          => 'asc',
       'meta_query'     => [
            [
                'key'      => 'doors',
                'value'    => 0,
                'compare'  => '>=',
                'type'     => 'UNSIGNED'
            ],
        ],
    ];

    //-----------------
    // Sub query #2:
    //-----------------
    $args2 = [
       'post_type'      => 'post',
       'posts_per_page' => 10,
       'orderby'        => 'date',
       'order'          => 'desc',
       'tax_query' => [
            [
                'taxonomy' => 'category',
                'field'    => 'slug',
                'terms'    => 'cars',
            ],
        ],
        'meta_query'     => [
            [
                'key'      => 'doors',
                'value'    => 0,
                'compare'  => '>=',
                'type'     => 'UNSIGNED'
            ],
        ],  
    ];


    //------------------------------
    // Order by a common meta value
    //------------------------------

    // Modify combined ordering:
    add_filter( 'cq_orderby', function( $orderby ) {
        return 'meta_value ASC';
    });

    // Modify sub fields:
    add_filter( 'cq_sub_fields', function( $fields ) {
        return $fields . ', meta_value';
    });

    //---------------------------
    // Combined queries #1 + #2:
    //---------------------------
    $args = [
        'posts_per_page' => 5,
        'orderby'        => 'meta_value',
        'order'          => 'DESC',
        'combined_query' => [        
            'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
        ]
    ];

    //---------
    // Output:
    //---------
    // See example 1a


###Example 4:

We could also combine more than two sub queries, here's an example of four sub-queries:

     $args = [ 
         'posts_per_page' => 10,
         'paged'          => 1,
         'combined_query' => [        
             'args'   => [ $args1, $args2, $args3, $args4 ],
         ]
      ];

    //---------
    // Output:
    //---------
    // See example 1a


###Example 5:

The above examples are all for secondary queries. So let's apply Example #1a to the main home query.

    add_action( 'pre_get_posts', function( \WP_Query $q )
    {   
        if( $q->is_home() && $q->is_main_query() )
        {
            //-----------------
            // Sub query #1:
            //-----------------
            $args1 = [
               'post_type'	=> 'page',
               'posts_per_page' => 1,
               'orderby'        => 'title',
               'order'          => 'asc',
            ];

            //-----------------
            // Sub query #2:
            //-----------------
            $args2 = [
               'post_type'      => 'post',
               'posts_per_page' => 3,
               'orderby'        => 'date',
               'order'          => 'asc',
            ];
        
            //---------------------------
            // Combined queries #1 + #2:
            //---------------------------
            $args = [
                'posts_per_page' => 4,
                'combined_query' => [
                    'args'   => [ $args1, $args2 ],
                    'union'  => 'UNION',
                ]
            ];

            //-----------------------
            // Modify the Main query:
            //-----------------------
            $q->set( 'combined_query',	$args['combined_query'] );
            $q->set( 'posts_per_page',  $args['posts_per_page'] );
        }
    } );




###Changelog

1.0.4 (2016-04-21)
 - Fixed: Adjusted the paged bug that sneaked in with verion 1.0.2 yesterday.
 - Improved: Simplified the example that uses get_query_var() that can now handle default as an input parameter.

1.0.3 (2016-04-21)
 - Fixed: Ticket #7 - Not able to set the "UNION ALL" union option
 - Improved: Inline docs

1.0.2 (2016-04-20)
 - Fixed: Ticket #6 - Escape % in the Generator class. (Props: @DArcMattr)
 - Improved: Inline docs

1.0.1 (2015-11-09)
 - Fixed: Remove vendor dependency and let the user install it via 'composer install' (Props: @pdufour)
 - Fixed: Ignore sticky posts in the EmptyQuery class
 
1.0.0 (2015-05-10)
 - ** Total Plugin Rewrite ** 
 - Closed: Ticket #3
 - Added: New classes Main, EmptyQuery and Generator. 
 - Added: Support for 'combined_query' attribute of the WP_Query class.
 - Added: Support only for PHP 5.4+
 - Added: Autoload via Composer. 
 - Added: New filter 'cq_sub_fields' instead of 'cq_sub_fields'
 - Added: New filter 'cq_orderby' instead of 'cq_orderby'

0.1.3 (2015-05-09)
 - Added: Support for ignory_sticky_posts.
 - Fixed: Minor 

0.1.2 (2015-05-08)
 - Added: Support for the GitHub Updater. 
 - Added: New filter 'wcq_sub_fields' 
 - Added: New filter 'wcq_orderby' 
 - Added: New example for meta value ordering
 - Fixed: Ordering didn't work correctly.

0.1.1
 - Changed: Coding style and autoloading (Props: @egill)

0.1  Various plugin improvements, for example:
 - Added: orderby in the combined query.
 - Added: posts_per_page in the sub queries.
 - Added: offset in the sub queries.
 - Added: paged in the sub queries.
 - Removed: sublimit in the combined query, use posts_per_page instead in sub queries.
 - Fixed: Issue #1 related to max_num_pages (Props: @hellofantastic).

0.0.4
 - Added: support for offset in the combined query

0.0.3
 - Added: GPL2+ License part
 - Removed: Dropped namespace + anonymous function for wider PHP support.

0.0.2 
 - Added: Input parameter 'union' with possible values UNION and UNION ALL.
 - Fixed: Empty paged resulted in a sql error. (Props: Robert Hue)
